== Crom

Crom is very simple scheduler for Rails.

== Usage

Add this line to your Gemfile:

  gem 'crom', :git => 'http://github.com/kgiszczak/crom'

and run:

  bundle install

You can run crom generator now:

  rails g crom:install

This command will create config/schedule.rb file where you can define your scheduled jobs.
Sample file looks like this:

  Crom.schedule do

    # every '1s' do
      # Some task
    # end

    # cron '* * * * *' do
      # Some task
    # end

    # schedule_in '20m' do
      # Some task
    # end

    # schedule_at 'Thu Mar 26 07:31:43 +0900 2020' do
      # Some task
    # end

  end

You can run crom with rake command:

  rake crom:start

This is helpful for debuging, or you can run crom as a daemon with:

  ./scrip/crom start

By default daemon is run with production environment. You can change this by passing -e flag:

  ./scrip/crom start -e development

== Error Handler

You can define error handler like this:

  Crom.handle_errors do |err|
    Mail.deliver do
      from    'error@example.com'
      to      'admin@example.com'
      subject err.message
      body    err.backtrace.join("\n")
    end
  end

This handler will be called every time error occurs.

== Using with Heroku

Only possible on cedar stack!

Create a file called Procfile in the root of your app and then add this line:

  worker:  bundle exec rake crom:start

Heroku by default runs just one web process so you have to add extra worker process.
Run this command on your command line:

  heroku scale worker=1

and now you can check if processes are running:

  heroku ps

you should see something like this:

  web.1         up for 2m           bundle exec rails server -p $PORT
  worker.1      up for 2m           bundle exec rake crom:start

=== Problems with installing gems on Heroku.

I went into problems with installing dependencies.
I couldn't install latest version of daemons and rufus-scheduler gems.
If you have this problem just add older versions of this gems to your Gemfile e.g.

  gem 'daemons', '1.1.3'
  gem 'rufus-scheduler', '2.0.9'
